[MUSIC PLAYING]
ROB DODSON: Hey, everybody.
What's up?
It's Rob Dodson.
Welcome back to
the Polycast show.
So today, as part
of popular demand,
I'm going to be
covering the topic
of using Redux with Polymer.
So a lot of people
have asked for this.
How do you manage state
in a big Polymer app?
How do you share, say, between
all of your components?
So I thought it'd be cool to
try and tackle this subject.
Now Redux itself is
a very big topic.
So I'm not going to be able to
cover every single facet of it
today in the show.
But I will link to
some content down
in the show notes, some
educational material,
so you can learn more about
Redux on your own time.
But I'm going to try and give
sort of a short synopsis of how
Redux works, and then
we'll look at how
we can build a very, very simple
Polymer app using the Polymer
Redux behaviors.
So follow me over
here to my laptop.
I've got a little presentation
that I've put together
for you to try and explain
conceptually what Redux is
and kind of how it works.
So when you're
building a Redux app,
your app is going to
be composed of views.
If we're using Polymer, you can
think of these as your Polymer
components.
OK?
Now, a view in Redux
land, it's typically
going to be the kind
of component that
maybe has a few components
sort of like aggregated inside
of it.
So every button and
drop-down and things
like that, those might not
all be hooked up to Redux.
But maybe the
component that holds
all of those children
together-- you know, sometimes
in Polymer we refer to these
as mediator components.
If you used React
before, they're
often referred to as
Container Components.
So these are components
that aggregate
a few very simple children
will be connected up
to our Redux system.
So we've got our View, and
what happens inside of the View
is it's going to
listen for changes.
So today on the show, we'll be
building a little friend list
thing so someone can add
a friend and hit a button,
it'll save it to a list.
So the change there would be
the user clicking on that button
and adding a friend.
So what happens is
our view is going to,
when it hears that
user action, you know,
it hears somebody
clicked on that button,
it's going to dispatch
what in Redux land
is referred to as an action.
And an action is quite
simply just a little object
that has a type, so some sort
of string constant, in this case
add friend, and then
usually like a payload value
of some kind.
So in this case, our friend
that we're going to add
will be named Eric.
So we dispatched that
action in response
to the user clicking a button
or something like that.
That action then gets
handed off to this thing
called the dispatcher.
The dispatcher is
actually what sort
of like takes an action
object, and it hands it
to what are called reducers
or in this case we're just
going to build one big reducer.
A reducer is a
function that looks
at the current action that's
coming in and then based
on that action type and based
on the payload in that action,
it generates some new
state for our application.
Now, the interesting
thing about Redux
is that it takes all
the state for your app,
and it keeps it in one
big top-level object.
So any change in any action
dispatched by any component
is going to update that
one big state object.
So inside of our reducer,
what we're going to do
is we're going to look
at the incoming action.
So in this case, the
action type is Add Friend.
And we might run some code.
We might push something
into an array or something
like that as part of our state.
And then finally,
we'll return that state
to the outside world.
Now, both the dispatcher
and the reducer
live inside of a structure
called the store.
And normally when you're
building a Redux app,
you'll have these
components that subscribe
to updates from the store.
Using the Polymer Redux
Library that we're
going to be working with today,
that whole subscription flow
is actually just going
to be automated for us.
But basically what happens is
the reducer says, hey, I've
got some new state based on
the action that just happened,
and then the store says,
cool, I've got that new state.
I will now hand it
off to all the views
that are listening to me.
Now, the cool
thing about this is
we don't have to limit
this to just one view.
Because we have
this one big store,
we can have multiple views
listening to that same store.
So component over here
can do some updating.
It can change something.
It can dispatch an
action, and then
these other components around
it can also get that new state.
So that way we don't
have components
that are trying to talk to
one another, which is nice.
We keep them decoupled.
Instead, all the state
just sort of flows
into them unidirectionally.
So everything that
we're going to do today
is actually going to
be one-way bindings,
because we're just going to
go in the sort of little loop
here.
Now, I know that that's a
lot of weird abstract theory.
How about we get
into our code editor,
and we actually start
writing some code
and hopefully that
will help some of this
make a bit more sense.
So follow me over here
to Visual Studio Code.
And I've got a very
simple project set up.
The first thing that
I'm going to need to do
is actually go into my terminal.
I'm going to run bower install
save turner Polymer Redux.
I've actually got that already
installed in my application.
So let's skip that step.
And the next thing
we're going to do
is we're actually going to use
NPM to install Redux itself.
So NPM install dash
dash save Redux,
and that will then pull
down the Redux Library
to our application.
Cool.
So those are really the
only two dependencies
that we're going
to work with today.
And now in Visual Studio code,
we've got our bower components
directory, and we've got
our node modules directory
with all of our
dependencies set up for us.
So I'm going to set up a
little index HTML file then.
And I've already kind of
stubbed this file out.
This should look
pretty familiar to you
if you've worked
with Polymer before.
So the first thing
that I'm doing
is I'm pulling in our
web components polyfills,
and then I'm making sure that
Redux is included in the page.
And then I've got
a couple elements
that I'm going to build
today-- friend counter, friend
input, and friend list.
I'm just including the imports
here so I don't forget.
And then I've got the
actual elements themselves
commented out down here.
So as I'm implementing each one,
I will comment these back in.
You can see the results.
So let's start by
defining our Redux store,
the thing that's going
to be consuming actions
and generating the
state for our app.
Now, the way that I
typically do that is I'm
going to create a Redux
store HTML import.
And inside of this,
just like we're
working with any
other Polymer element,
we're going to
import Polymer Redux.
And then we're going
to create a script tag.
And inside of the script
tag, the first thing
that we want to do is
we want to generate
sort of the initial state
for our application.
So this is just sort
of like the user hits
the page for the first time,
what does the app look like?
So I'll define a const.
And I will say initial
state equals an object.
And this is a really simple app.
So we're going to say the only
state that we initially have
is this empty friends array.
Next, I'm going to
define our reducer.
So I'll say that my reducer
is going to be a function that
takes state and action.
And then typically what
you see with reducers
is they go through
and they usually
make a switch statement.
And so they say-- they
sort of do a switch case
based on the action
that is coming in
at the current moment.
So we're going to
say, all right,
so based on the action that's
coming in, what kind of state
do we want to return?
So let's see.
So if there's maybe no initial
state or anything like that,
let's actually go ahead and
return our initial state.
So if no state was passed in,
we'll return the initial state.
Then we can switch on the actual
action that was passed in.
So we'll do a switch
for action dot type.
And in the app that we're
going to build today,
we're only going to have
one action type, which
is going to be add friend.
So let's say, all right, cool.
So if action type is
Add Friend, now we
want to do something to
modify our initial states.
We're going to take
our initial state,
and we're going to sort of
like move it to the next phase.
We're going to add whatever
friend was just passed in.
Now, in Redux what
is often done is
you often make sure to sort
of like copy your state.
So rather than mutating the
one big global state object,
you try and make it immutable.
So you actually copy it
and in that copying phase,
you might insert whatever
changes you have.
So every time you're
modifying the state,
you're creating a new
copy of the state,
and you're adding whatever
changes you want to do.
So we're going to
say friends equals
state dot friends dot slice 0.
So we're making a copy of
the current friends array.
And then we're going to
say friends dot push.
And in this case, we're going
to be pushing in the new friend
name from our action.
So we'll say action dot friend.
So we're pushing that
into our friends array.
So that would be-- we'd just
be pushing in a name like Steve
or Eric or Monica or whatever.
And then the last thing
that we're going to do
is we're going to return
the new state object.
Now, the pattern that I've
often seen done in Redux
goes a little
something like this--
you do an object assign,
you take an empty object,
you take it to current state.
So we're taking
the current state,
we're copying it into
a brand-new object,
and then we take
whichever little mutation
that we're doing
based on our action.
So that'll be the last
thing that we copy in there.
So we'll say the
last thing we want
to copy in is this new friends
array that we've created.
OK?
This is a pretty
straightforward,
simple reducer.
It only has one action
that it supports,
but we could add
multiple actions to this.
We could add/remove friend,
we could sort friends.
The cool thing about
this is it kind
of just like scales infinitely,
which is really nice.
Now, the next thing
we want to do now
that we have our initial
state and our reducer,
is we want to create a store.
And we want to create a
behavior that we can hand off
to all of our Polymer elements.
So we'll say our
store is going to be
equal to Redux dot create
store and pass it our reducer.
And then we're going to say
Redux behavior equals Polymer
Redux, and we'll
pass it our store.
So if I haven't
made any typos, I
believe this should
create a behavior for us
based on that store
that we generated.
And now we can mix that
into our different elements.
And they'll just get notified
whenever we update our data.
So let's try that out.
We'll create a new element
here called Friend Counter.
And the first thing I
want to do in this element
is I want to make sure that
I'm pulling in Polymer.
So I'll pull in Polymer.
And I want to make sure that
I pull in that Redux store
that we created.
So I'll import our Redux store.
And now we're ready to start
stamping out this new element.
So we'll call our
element Friend Counter.
And the only thing that we're
going to do with this element
is we're just going to display
the current count of friends
that the user has.
So basically just taking the
count from that friends array
from our store.
We want to make sure that we
mix in our Redux behavior.
So we'll say behaviors
Redux behavior like so.
And then the only property
that we're going to have--
or we'll have two
properties actually.
So we'll have one which will
be a property for our friends
that gets passed in.
So there's going to be friends.
This is an array.
And the one piece
of unique syntax
that the Redux behavior
is going to give us
is this thing called state path.
And we're going to set
that equal to friends.
So what state path is
doing is it's saying, OK,
what is the path?
How do I link this property
up to the one sub-property
in that big global state object?
So for instance, because
we have that big state
object and friends,
it's just an array,
right off the root
of that object,
our path is just friends.
But it could be nested.
You could do something like if
you were looking for user dot
address, right, you
could do something
like that-- that right here.
So you can kind of work
down sub-properties
if you need to to link up
the property and this element
to your big state object.
But in this case,
because friends
is right on the root
of our state object,
we can just say our state
path is right there.
So that is going to connect our
element to the friends array.
Now, the next thing
I want to do is
I want to compute a property
based on the total number
of friends that we have.
So I'll make another
property called Friend Count.
This is going to be a number,
and this will actually
be computed.
And we'll give it a computing
function called Compute Friend
Count friends like that.
And Compute Friend
Count function
takes that friends array.
And it's just going to
return friends dot length.
Pretty simple.
So now in our
template, we're going
to just say-- we'll
have an H3 in here--
and we'll say you have
friend count [INAUDIBLE]
So let's go back
to our index file.
Friend Counter is
already ready to go.
So we'll uncomment
it in the body,
go it to the Google
Chrome, refresh the page.
You can see right here it
says you have 0 friends.
Aw.
But we can play around with
some of that initial state
if we want to.
We can go to the Redux store,
and we can say, OK, well
I have a friend.
Monica is my friend, right?
So we can change the
initial state in our app.
We can go back and verify,
ah, we have one friends now.
Cool, you know?
So that way we know that the
initial state is working,
and it's being piped
to that element.
Let us then modify that state.
So let's now create
a component that
will let us add some more
friends to this array.
And hopefully what
that should do
is update the count in our
friends counter as well.
So I'll make a new element
called Friend Input.
And I'm just going to steal my
imports from Friend Counter.
So I'm going to grab Polymer.
I'll grab the Redux store.
Give me that are there.
So friend input.
Kind of make sure to not
forget our Redux behavior.
I forget this all the time.
As I've been working
with this thing,
I've realized that's probably
the main mistake I make.
I forget the
behavior, and then I'm
like how come nothing's working?
Why is this not updating?
So I'm going to make sure
the Redux behavior is there.
And this element, we're going to
have basically two very simple
things.
We'll have an input
field so someone
can type in a friend name.
And I'm going to give
it an ID of Field.
There we go.
And we will also have a button
that just says Add Friend.
And we'll say when
someone-- we give the button
a handler of on tap.
When some clicks the button,
we will run the Add Friend
function.
Now, the next interesting thing
that the Polymer Redux Library
gives us is it gives
us a way to sort
of like take what
in Redux are called
Action Creators
and actually just
sort of make them part
of our components.
So we can sort of
pre-define the actions
that this component can spit
out to the rest of the world.
So we do that by adding
an Actions object.
The same way that
we add a Properties
object, you can
add Actions object.
So the Actions object
here, I'm going
to have an action
called Add, and that
is going to be a function that
is going to return an object.
And this function is also going
to take like our new friend's
name.
So we're going to
return an object.
The type will be add
friend-- add friend--
and the friend will be that
name value that we pass in.
OK?
So far, so good.
Now, the last thing
we're going to do
is we will implement
this Add Friend
function, this
thing that happens
when you click on the button.
And what that's going to
do when we implement it,
is it's going to basically get
the value from our text field,
and it's going to dispatch
this action right here.
So let's go down here.
We'll say add friend.
It is function.
First it's going
to say, all right.
Our field is equal to this
dot dollar sign dot field
so we can reference
it more easily.
And we'll say if
the field has value,
you know, if someone just
like clicks a button,
and there's nothing in there,
we don't want to do anything.
But if they've typed
a name, then we're
going to say this
dot dispatch add.
And we're going to
pass in field value.
So that will trigger this
action creator right here.
It'll pass in the name.
And it'll dispatch this
object to our reducer.
So it will dispatch and
friend with our friend's name.
That will go to our
Redux store, which
will run the switch statement.
It will say what action was it?
It was Add Friend.
And then let me find the
action dot friend property
and push that into
the new state.
So that's what
we're doing there.
So we're going to say
dispatch the friend value.
And then we'll do just like
a little bit of clean up.
So we'll also say field
dot value equals null just
to clear out the text field.
And then we will
also call field dot
focus to return
focus to the field
after someone has
clicked on the button.
Let's see if this one
works on the first try.
Oh, we've got to go
to our Index page,
put the friend
input back in there.
Refresh the page.
OK, cool.
I've got my little input here.
So my initial state
says I have 0 friends.
I'm going to add
Monica, Add Friend,
and-- oh, it's totally busted.
What did we forgot?
I forgot something.
Oh, TypeError-- this.dispatch
is not a function.
Let's see, friend input.
Where did we go wrong?
Add friend function,
Redux behavior.
We got the Redux behavior.
Mm-hm.
All right.
It's in here somewhere.
Hold on, folks.
We're going to fix this.
Ah, wait.
Wait.
There it is.
Behaviors is Redux behavior.
All right.
Let's try that again.
Monica, Add Friend.
We have one friends.
Now we can't see the
friends right now.
We're not just displaying
our friends list,
but we can sort of
tell that things
are working, because as I'm
adding friends to that array,
it is updating our friend count.
So the last thing
I'm going to do
is just create a friend list
element that will display
all the friends as we add them.
So we will grab our two imports
from our previous elements,
create a new one
called friend list.
This one will be pretty simple.
So the Friend List, just like
we did with the Friend Counter,
and its properties object.
We will say, hey, I would
like to have Friends object,
the type is array.
The state path is friends.
I want to make sure to include
our behaviors here-- behaviors.
Redux behavior.
That is going to hook us
up to the Redux store.
And then the last
thing I want to do
is create a UL and then a little
template with a dom repeat.
Template is equals dom repeat.
We'll say that the items that
we're going to pass in-- again,
we're using a
one-way binding here.
The items is going
to be Friends.
And we will say-- we will
rename each item to just friend,
like so.
And then I'm going to
create a little list item.
And I will pipe in the friend.
Save that.
Go back to our Index file,
uncomment the friend list,
go back here, refresh the page.
So we don't see
anything just yet.
Well, we add a friend.
We add Monica.
Boom.
There we go.
One friend.
Two friends.
Three friends.
Cool.
So now we've got three elements.
They are all receiving data
from our global data store.
But the nice thing is
those three elements
do not have to talk directly
to each other or anything
like that.
They all work in
essentially the same way.
They all take part in the sort
of unidirectional data flow.
So all any of them
have to do if they
want to change something is
they just dispatch an action.
And then we implement that
action as part of our reducer.
That updates the
state for the app,
and then everyone
displays the new value.
So that about
covers it for today.
I know this was a pretty
quick and dirty introduction
to using Redux and Polymer.
And there are probably
a bunch of questions
that you have and
a bunch of things
that you would like to see.
So please, please, please
leave some comments down below.
And I will try to maybe tackle
some of those feature requests
and whatnot in the next episode.
I definitely want to keep
exploring some of this,
looking at how we can
like share actions,
do asynchronous actions,
other cool things like that.
As always, you can
also contact me
on a social network
of your choosing.
Thank you so much for watching,
and I'll see you next time.
Hey, folks.
What's up?
It is Rob.
Thank you so much for
watching this episode.
If you'd like to see some
more, we've got some over there
in the playlist.
And as always, you can
click the little Subscribe
button to keep getting
content every time
we push it up to the channel.
Again, thank you so
much for watching.